Evaluate the answer using the supplied question and policy context only.

Goal: determine whether the answer correctly answers the user's question using the provided policy context without introducing unsupported claims.

Criterion:
Does the answer correctly answer the user's question using the provided policy context without introducing unsupported claims?

Rules:
- Evaluate semantic correctness only.
- Use only the supplied question, answer, and context.
- Do not use outside knowledge.
- Do not use the human reference labels or any hidden answer key.
- Do not reward answers that sound plausible but are unsupported.
- Do not evaluate deterministic assertion criteria such as section references, handbook versions, numeric presence, or refusal wording.
- Compare the user's question, the retrieved policy context, and the generated answer.
- Judge the answer content itself. Ignore irrelevant citation, provenance, source-file names, chunk labels, or document-name wording unless that wording changes the substantive answer.
- Determine correctness from the question, supplied policy context, and RAG answer only. Do not add facts absent from the policy context.
- Evaluate the full answer, including any end summary or conclusion. A final conclusion that materially contradicts the policy context makes the answer incorrect even if earlier lines are correct.
- If the answer contains a contradiction with the policy context, return FAIL.
- If the answer is materially incomplete, return FAIL when the question asks for multiple material requirements, conditions, steps, consequences, or components and the answer omits a material part needed to answer the question correctly. Do not fail an answer merely because it omits extra policy details that are not necessary to answer the user’s specific question.
- If the answer is otherwise correct but carries citation/provenance noise, return PASS if the substantive answer is supported by the policy context.

Unsupported / unanswerable policy questions:
First classify whether the supplied policy context contains enough information to answer the user's question.

A. SUPPORTED QUESTION
If the supplied policy context contains the information needed to answer the question:
- The answer must provide the requested information correctly.
- If the answer says "I don't know", "not available", "not covered", or otherwise refuses to answer, return FAIL.
- If the answer gives unsupported or incorrect information, return FAIL.
- If the answer correctly answers the question using the context, return PASS.

B. UNSUPPORTED / UNANSWERABLE QUESTION
If the supplied policy context does NOT contain the information needed to answer the question:
- The answer must NOT invent, guess, infer, or fabricate a policy.
- If the answer explicitly says that the requested information is unavailable, cannot be determined, or is not covered by the provided policy documents, return PASS.
- This is a correct grounded response because the system cannot answer something that is absent from the supplied policy context.
- If the answer invents or guesses an answer, return FAIL.

IMPORTANT:
For an unsupported question, an appropriate refusal is PASS, NOT FAIL.

Use this exact decision table:
| Context contains requested information | Answer behavior | Verdict |
|---|---|---|
| YES | Correctly answers from context | PASS |
| YES | Refuses / says information unavailable | FAIL |
| YES | Gives unsupported or incorrect answer | FAIL |
| NO | Correctly states information is unavailable | PASS |
| NO | Invents / guesses / fabricates an answer | FAIL |

Q28-type example:
Question: Does the company provide pet leave?
Policy context: The supplied policy context contains no information about pet leave.
Answer: I don't know based on the provided HR policy documents.
Verdict: PASS
Reason: The supplied policy context does not contain information about pet leave, and the answer correctly states that the information is unavailable without inventing a policy.

MANDATORY CONSISTENCY CHECK:
Before returning the final JSON:
1. Determine whether the context contains the requested information.
2. Determine whether the answer provides information or appropriately refuses.
3. Apply the decision table above.
4. Verify that the verdict matches the reason.
5. If your reason says the context does not contain the requested information AND the answer correctly states that it is unavailable, the verdict MUST be PASS.

- If the answer is a correct semantic paraphrase or a faithful restatement using different wording, it may PASS when supported by the context.
- If the answer addresses the user question and is supported by the context, return PASS. Otherwise return FAIL.

Decision procedure:
Before deciding PASS or FAIL, evaluate in this order:
1. Identify exactly what the user is asking.
2. Identify what information is required to answer it.
3. Check whether that information exists in the supplied policy context.
4. If the context contains the answer:
   - evaluate whether the RAG answer correctly provides it.
   - an unjustified refusal is FAIL.
5. If the context does not contain the answer:
   - determine whether the RAG answer appropriately acknowledges that limitation.
   - an appropriate non-hallucinatory refusal/unavailability statement is PASS.
   - a fabricated or unsupported answer is FAIL.
6. Check the entire answer for contradictions.
7. Check for unsupported claims.
8. Check material omissions only when they are necessary to answer the actual question.
9. Ensure the final verdict is logically consistent with the reason.

Few-shot examples:

Example 1 - Explicit contradiction
Question: How many days of unused annual leave can be carried over or encashed?
Policy context: Up to 10 days may be carried over. A maximum of 5 days may be encashed per calendar year.
Answer: Up to 10 days may be carried over and up to 5 days may be encashed. Therefore, up to 10 days can be carried over or encashed.
Expected verdict: FAIL
Reason: The final conclusion incorrectly applies the 10-day carry-over limit to encashment and therefore contradicts the supplied policy context.

Example 2 - Supported answer with irrelevant provenance/citation wording
Question: Within how many working days must a potential conflict of interest be disclosed to HR?
Policy context: Potential conflicts must be disclosed to HR in writing within 5 working days.
Answer: A potential conflict must be disclosed to HR in writing within 5 working days. Source: employee_conduct_policy.pdf, Chunk 4.
Expected verdict: PASS
Reason: The substantive answer is supported by the policy context. The citation/provenance wording does not change the answer.

Return ONLY a JSON object in this exact shape:
{{
  "verdict": "PASS",
  "reason": "<brief reason>"
}}

User Question:
{question}

Retrieved Policy Context:
{context}

Generated Answer:
{answer}
